Title: Calliope Studio Tattoo

----

Text: (image: 01.png)

(image: 02.png)

(image: 03.png)

(image: 04.png)



PROGRESSIVE TATTOOING AND THE BIGGER PICTURE



My artwork is more like a tour of the Louvre on a Harley-- influenced by almost 5 centuries of European art and decades of American experimentation, a hybrid of styles with a deep knowledge of color theory and how to represent ideas through images.

Together with an expert understanding of human anatomy, and a fiery passion for visual articulation and body beautification.







*Tattoo special of the month*



(Check here for monthly specials-- get a 50% discount on whatever tattoo concept listed here.)



February 2013:

half-off all abstract art tattoo designs.

Ever wanted a Rothko on your arm? No time like the present.

This is not your uncle’s skull and crossbones, and we’re not in Kansas anymore, baby.



Tattooing, as an industry, is exploding with creative energy and innovation, and making big strides to catch up to the rest of the art world. As silly stigmas fade and artists break out of boxes more and more, we’re finally starting to utilize a more sophisticated visual language, telling more interesting stories with better visual tools and wider variety than every before.



Enter an art historian with a knack for contemporary aesthetic theory, a fine arts background, and you’re going to get highly unconventional tattoo art that draws from a broad spectrum of ideas and styles-- some very modern and some pretty old school.



A great tattoo begins being great in the design phase. You can say something a dozen ways, but some ways are more interesting and more beautiful than others, and different styles suit different people better.



A good tattoo artist communicates well with clients, to understand what a piece of art is about for that person, and how to adapt an image to suit each person’s body and personality best. Ideally, a great tattoo artist can take a good idea and know how to make it great-- if the artist is an expert they have many tools and tricks to make each client’s idea really shine and help them find what fits them individually like a glove. Your body and your artwork deserve the love, you’re going to wear it forever!



Variables to consider might include:



SIZE-- Some ideas want to be smallish and others need or deserve more space to assert themselves better. Each body part has a sweet spot-- and each person has an intuitive sense of how big they want a piece to be.



PLACEMENT-- This is huge. Different body parts speak differently, and it’s all part of the visual language that the best tattoo artists utilize. Forearms (along the ulna-- the outer bone) are aggressive in nature, not where you want to put your mom’s name, although it takes script beautifully. Inside the bicep is ideal for subject matter that’s really personal, and across the shoulders is great for a name or other weighty part of identity expression. Tattooing the face is considered offensive in Western culture, but is traditional in other cultures. Know what suits your idea, your body and your culture best, for artwork you’re going to love for the rest of your life.



ANATOMY-- Muscles flow across the skeleton with a beautiful continuity, and really great designs flow along with whatever contour deserves accentuation. A popular tattoo that uses this principle is when a custom-drawn tribal half sleeve or shoulder piece wraps big, bold rounded shapes around the deltoids on a man’s shoulder and flowing along the triceps and biceps, accentuating the musculature. A woman’s delicate collarbone would ask for more delicate lines and different placement of images (see the photo of the hummingbird and passion flower arranged with a more feminine flow). There’s a science to how drawing and anatomy work together, and many of the best tattoos exploit these principles with outstanding results.



COLOR-- Some people shy away from color because they haven’t seen what it can do. The modern color palette has huge variety and sophistication, and can be quite subtle or intensely vibrant, depending on the subject matter or the personality of the person wearing it. We have a lot more than just plain old red, green and black now; don’t be shy... ask for ideas and choose what you love most!



REPRESENTATION-- Sure, you can say your idea with words, but a picture is worth a thousand words, and considered by most to be a more sophisticated method of communication. Sometimes words really are best, but imagery expressing an idea through visual metaphors can be so rich. If you need it, a good artist can help you brainstorm a multitude of ways to say what you want to say, and tailor an idea to fit your personal style best. 



(image: 05.jpg)

Calliope was the muse of epic poetry (including The Odyssey), and the mother of two prophet and musician sons. She was the wisest of all the muses, and the most assertive.



(image: 06.jpg)

The calliope is also a quirky musical instrument-- also called a “steam organ”, built originally out of locomotive whistles.



Body beautification is a service to humanity.