Title: Artwork

----

Text: ALL GOOD ART HAS A STORY...

WHAT’S YOURS?



Quite a dramatic departure from the traditional tattooing format of outlining a simplified image and either shading or filling with color... 

This is an idea I can’t stop coming back to. Borrowing heavily from several parts of historic art, including the fantastic woodcuts of the 16th century European artists-- and makes an intense, bright and playful statement with subject matter from a deep place in this client’s heart.



The harp and bowl concept comes from the book of Revelation, where the prayers (the colorful incense) and worship (the harp) of people through all of history play a part in the ultimate vanquishing of evil and triumph of justice and peace. The globe is Asia-forward, because the client is a passionate abolitionist, and Southeast Asia is a major center for activists working to end human trafficking. The heavy subject matter is intensely represented with high contrast lines and color, but the hope of a triumphant outcome comes through with an almost playful use of color, curling lines and stippling.

This particular style heals easily and is particularly well suited to skin colors and types that have a harder time taking color.



Constructing a tattoo with descriptive lines and color that speaks for itself is a bold and modern statement. An intensity of the image comes from a lot of contrast: notice the light that catches on the strings of the harp, and very straight lines on a  soft, curved body part (a technical challenge). Use of lines can be versatile; here they create an expressive color field on the bowl/globe.



Two Sharpie drawings that illustrate the organic development of imagery as it flows with the anatomy (and existing tattoos).



(image: 10.jpg) 

The oak tree was tattooed in a realistic color palette, which fit the client well. 



(image: 03.jpg)

(image: 09.png)

The river was tattooed in bold blues, which looked fantastic on his great redhead skin coloring.



(image: 12.jpg)

Well balanced letterforms with proportions similar to those used in classical Renaissance art, this script holds visual weight and has unusual presence. This client brought in a script that he liked for reference, and I redrew it to make it more interesting while keeping the original flavor intact.



(image: 11.jpg)

A realistic style for a specific artwork the client wanted reproduced  on his arm. The color palette was brightened a bit to suit the skin tone. Also an effective cover up.



(image: 01.jpg)

(image: 02.jpg) 

A whimsical beginning layer (the first session) to what will become a multi-layered graphic expression of beauty and life. This piece represents a modern interpretation of foundational concepts of Henna body art, intricate line work, stippling and contemporary colors. Organic and rhythmic, this piece uses more sophisticated visual language to create an expression of thriving. (The name isn’t my work.)



(image: 13.jpg)

Who says you can’t use white in large areas and get great effect?

This client adores falcons, so we included a realistically rendered image of the incredible bird, on a blue ground to make the bird really pop.



(image: 05.jpg)

This tattoo brings two words to mind, “precious” and “vitality”.

This client is a remarkably beautiful soul, fighting to overcome serious obstacles and learning to thrive. She encourages and inspires everyone around here; working with her is a real privilege. 



(image: 04.jpg)

Placed further off the shoulder, the rounded shape of the passion flower becomes decorative in an almost-bridal way, and the delicacy of the hummingbird accentuates her lovely shoulder without overwhelming her natural proportion.



(image: 07.jpg)

This brilliant tattoo (a cover up) came from a client who brought in a favorite painting by an artist I’d never heard of. It took a little creativity to translate into a tattoo, but worth the effort!



(image: 06.jpg)

Unfortunately this photo doesn’t begin to do justice to this art work... a better photo is coming soon!



*all original artwork and text copyright Andrea Liptac 2012*